Post about writing technology-agnostic services (#8)
Raniz85/raniz.blog: src/posts/writing-agnostic-services/index.md

---
title: "Developing technology-agnostic services"
description: ""
date: 2024-06-25
thumb: "edge2edge-media-qHhJkxare7A-unsplash.jpg"
thumbCaption: "Credit: Edge2Edge Media via Unsplash"
thumbCaptionHref: "edge2edge-media-qHhJkxare7A-unsplash.jpg"
tags: 
    - architecture
    - cloud
    - kubernetes
    - EU-DORA
---

We (at factor10) have been discussing the EU's Digital Operational Resilience Act lately,
what it means, and what impact it might have.

What we have yet to discuss, though, is _how on earth_ you are supposed to comply with it.
I'm not going to do that here either,

> but I want to address how you can develop software so you can easily move it between providers or swap out specific technologies,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but I want to address how you can develop software so you can somewhat flexibly move it between providers or swap out specific technologies,
```

which is one piece of that puzzle.

---

> If your immediate reaction was: "That's easy, you just use Kubernetes",

Reviewer: VIlken oväntad "immediate reaction" tänker jag... :D Jag trodde den direkta reaktionen skulle vara något i stil med att håll det hela supersimpelt så går det att flytta med minimal ansträngning. :)

Author: Jag tror att den är rätt vanlig. "Cloud Native", "Operating system of the cloud" och allt sånt där.

Man jag spår ju bara, och ville få in att Kubernetes inte löser alla problem :)

you're on to something.
But you're also completely wrong.

Developing for Kubernetes means you're relatively free to move between Kubernetes providers
(details will differ, such as persistent volumes and load balancer routes).
But restricting yourself to Kubernetes means you're limited by what can run on Kubernetes,

> which is not always what we want. For example, AWS SQS is a very powerful message queue that is also simple to use; it's a solid choice if you're running on AWS and need a message queue.

Reviewer: Jag TROR du menar att dessa två exempel inte fungerar med kubernetes, korrekt? I så fall så tror jag det ska sägas lite mer explicit.

Author: Det jag menar är att om man _bara_ vill befinna sig på Kubernetes så missar man den här typen av användbara tjänster. Ska ta ett varv och förtydliga det

Another example is Azure CosmosDB for NoSQL. It is a schemaless, horizontally scalable database service that can automatically replicate data to multiple regions and has a "serverless" pricing tier - if you're on Azure, that sounds useful.

And what if something better than Kubernetes comes around in three years?

As it often does, the real answer lies in _loose coupling_ and abstraction.

Here's what [Wikipedia has to say about loose coupling](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Loose_coupling):

> In computing and systems design, a loosely coupled system is one
> 1. in which components are weakly associated (have breakable relationships) with each other, and thus changes in one component least affect existence or performance of another component.
> 2. in which each of its components has, or makes use of, little or no knowledge of the definitions of other separate components. Subareas include the coupling of classes, interfaces, data, and services. Loose coupling is the opposite of tight coupling.

> Generally, when we talk about loose coupling, we talk about the structure of our code.

Reviewer: Möjligen att några tänker att det kan gälla team, men det är väl bara andra sidan av myntet...

Förresten, Gregor Hohpe publicerade en rolig text om coupling igår tror jag. Kanske passar med en ref dit någonstans i denna texten.

Structuring it in a way that means that changes in one part of the code have minimal impact on other parts.
The same techniques can be applied to how we interact with the outside world
so that completely replacing one system does not cause profound changes within the codebase.

# Achieving loose coupling

> Layered, Hexagonal, Onion, N-Tier, Clean, Ports and Adapters.

Reviewer: Tror inte det passar här, men jag brukar tänka att om man "bara" kör DDD och rik domänmodell så hamnar man ju automatiskt rätt liksom... :)

Author: Japp, med DDD får du ju layering på köpet så att säga.

regardless of whether it is the database server, the message queue, or the function as a service platform that invokes our code.

Below are two diagrams depicting the same application running on AWS Lambda with DynamoDB or Azure Kubernetes Service with CosmosDB.

<img src="layered architecture-AWS Lambda.svg" />
<img src="layered architecture-Azure AKS.svg" />

As can be seen, the application's core does not differ between the two deployments. Only the parts that interact with the outside world do.

Contrast this with a solution without layering, where we use the _LambdaContext_ and _DynamoDBClient_ within the application logic.
Replacing these requires us to change the core,
where the application logic resides -
which is error-prone and complicated.
In the case of moving from an AWS Lambda function to a containerised service serving a REST API,
we likely need to introduce handling of the HTTP context into our core as well.

Breaking this functionality out into separate layers not only means we can leave the application logic alone when replacing infrastructure,
but we also gain the ability to test our application logic without involving any provider-specific dependencies.

> There is no need to mock or interact with DynamoDB or CosmosDB when testing our core logic -

Reviewer: Om det ens behövs, det mesta av det intressanta när man använder en rik domänmodell bör vara testbar utan några repos över huvud taget tänker jag. :)

Author: Ja, fast nånstans måste du väl testa att din kod använder dina repositories korrekt?

we can use in-memory implementations of our repositories instead.

> We should still write provider-specific tests, of course, but they can be limited to interface implementations and need not concern business logic.

Reviewer: Me like!

Should we want to,

> we can even put the interface layers in separate modules and run the code at two different providers simultaneously.

Reviewer: Möjligen att detta låter överdrivet är jag rädd, men för vissa use cases kan det kanske fungera/vara intressant. :)

Author: Ja, det är ju överdrivet exempel. Men det sätter ju upp för slutklämmen: tänk om vi kunde ha automatisk failover mellan våra leverantörer?
